# Arrest Prediction Project Proposal
Reuben Rappaport (rbr76), Celine Brass (cjb327), BridgetCheng(bjc267)

# Problem Description
The city of Chicago has witnessed a stunning 9,589 crimes reported thus far in the month of September. This is only the tip of the iceberg when you consider the many crimes which go unreported to begin with. The Chicago police force is tasked with securing the safety of its citizens and yet, of the many crimes reported, only a small fraction will eventually result in an arrest. In examining the efficacy of the police, a natural question to ask is which factors determine whether or not a crime will be solved. 

This sort of analysis could lead to insights into deficiencies in policing - perhaps certain areas of the city are systematically under policed or certain types of crime are systematically under investigated. Analyzing the nature and features of crimes committed in the past to identify these biases will allow us to improve the dispatchment of our police force and procedures for handling specific types of crime in the future. Specifically we aim to answer the following question: if a crime of a given type occurs at a given time and location in the city of Chicago, will the police eventually arrest someone for it.

# Dataset Description
The Chicago Police Department maintains a CLEAR (Citizen Law Enforcement Analysis and Reporting) database of committed crimes from 2001 to present day, detailing characteristics about the incident including the type, location, time, and descriptions of the police force tasked with resolving the incident. This database is consistently maintained and updated daily to reflect the most recent history of crimes. The [CLEAR dataset](https://data.cityofchicago.org/Public-Safety/Crimes-2001-to-present/ijzp-q8t2) contains over 6 million rows and 22 columns, providing us with a large amount of data for train and test. The dataset contains primarily quantitative data; however, more detailed descriptions of the location and type of crime are provided qualitatively. As a result, we will need to perform several feature transformations to extract the information such that it will be usable in training our model. 

There are several obstacles we will need to overcome in order to produce a valuable model for this data. Firstly, the proportion of crimes resulting in an arrest is so small that if we use random sampling, it is possible there will not be enough arrests in the sample to create a model. Other potential problems lie in the proportion of different crimes committed as well as the high concentration of crimes in particular areas of the city. A potential solution we could try to solve this problem is to use K-fold cross validation. 
